Where are you from? 
Fort Wayne, Indiana
No I mean where are you actually from? 
I don’t understand, I was born here.
Like what kind of Asian are you?
Oh. My parents are Chinese. 
I know. It’s a classic. We’ve heard it before in every piece of diaspora writing that’s ever existed. But this conversation (and the many many many versions of it I’ve had) was the first time I was confronted with figuring out what my cultural/ethnic identity was, and what it meant.
When I was growing up, I had this conversation in many many variations. I’ve heard every racial quip in the book. They always bothered me a little - a barely there, but unmistakable discomfort that reappeared every time, but I couldn’t explain why it was uncomfortable. I’m being too sensitive, I used to think.
My cultural memories from my childhood are pretty hazy. 
The only Chinese, or Asian spaces at all that I remember frequenting growing up were two very small Asian grocery stores, my piano teacher’s house, and a lunar new year celebration. I attended Chinese school very briefly before hating it, and begging my mom to be pulled out. 
Actually, I do remember hating a lot of Chinese things about me. I hated the silk dress and silk shirt and pants set that my mom wanted me to wear. I hated the shape of my eyes and nose. I hated explaining how to pronounce my middle name. I hated both answering questions about Chinese people/culture/language but also not knowing the answer to some of those questions. I particularly hated being asked to say something in Chinese and then immediately having the sounds mocked. I stopped speaking in Chinese entirely. 
Language is an integral part of participating in cultural interactions and in forming cultural identity. My resulting lack of fluency is always been a core factor in my personal struggle to find belongingness and claim to my “native” culture. Without language fluency, not only is communication with members of my family incredibly difficult, but on a deeper level I don’t feel connected to them or their culture.
