Visual representation of Chinese-American spaces has historically been heavily reliant on orientalist stereotypes and associations, similar to the association drawn between calligraphy and ‘oriental’ lettering that lead to the creation of Chop Suey fonts. The architecture of Chinatowns reflects this as well. After the 1906 earthquake in San Francisco, large portions of the city including Chinatown burned down and needed to be rebuilt. This offered an opportunity for a redesign of Chinatown, and it needed to be strategic. Economically, Chinatown relied heavily on its success as a tourist destination, and the new buildings should therefore be visually distinct from other areas of San Francisco. <span id=”01” class=”page5”>Architects</span> who designed the new buildings were likely unfamiliar with Chinese architecture, and based many of the new building designs off of the <span id=”02” class=”page5”>large, decorative monuments of Beijing.</span> They constructed large, ornamental gates and multi-storied, pagoda-like towers with tiled roofs. They added lattice work and dragon motif details, as well as lanterns around the outside of the buildings’ facade.
The architectural redesign of Chinatown along with the continued usage of Chop Suey fonts in signage and print artifacts was a commercial success. It brought business to Chinese restaurants and shops, and, most importantly, gave the people behind them their livelihoods. As a result, these visual themes became prolific in Chinatowns and around Chinese businesses around the country. Chinatowns in every major city in the U.S. feature that iconic entrance gate, as well as lanterns strung over the streets and the tiled rooftops, and Chop Suey signage. These ‘oriental’ visual styles then became associated with Chinese culture, and by extension, <span id=”03” class=”page5”>Chinese people.</span>
 <span id=”char1” class=”page5>举目
 无亲</span> 
Although Chinatowns are built with an ‘oriental’ facade, they are not reflective of the diversity within the Chinese immigrant community. Although Chop suey fonts are modeled after Chinese calligraphy, the resulting font nowhere resembles the calligraphic forms of Chinese characters. Although Chinese immigrants established a space for their community, it is distinctly American in these ways. Outside of Chinatown, it gets even more difficult to find diversity in visual representation. Whereas in Chinatown you were likely to still find signage written in Chinese, elsewhere you may only find stand alone Chinese restaurants with Chop Suey fonts featured.
Although I was born in the States, I was always constantly reminded by my peers that I looked different, that my family was different. Although this is my home, I constantly felt like a stranger.